(DOCSP-23500): Create a background sync page for SwiftUI docs (#2294)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/swift/swiftui/background-sync.txt

.. _swiftui-background-sync:

====================================================
Sync Data in the Background with SwiftUI - Swift SDK
====================================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

You can use a SwiftUI :apple:`BackgroundTask <documentation/SwiftUI/BackgroundTask>`
to update a Synced realm when your app is in the background. This example
demonstrates how to configure and perform background Syncing in an iOS app.

> You can follow along with this example using the SwiftUI Device Sync Template App.
> 
> To get your own copy of the SwiftUI Device Sync Template App, check out the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can follow along with the example on this page using the SwiftUI Device Sync Template App.
To get your own copy of the SwiftUI Device Sync Template App, check out the 
```

i think it'd make more sense for this sentence about the template app being with the install instructions. that way the idea is unified in 1 paragraph

:ref:`Device Sync SwiftUI tutorial <swift-swiftui-tutorial>` and go through
the :guilabel:`Prerequisites` and :guilabel:`Start with the Template`
sections.

Enable Background Modes for Your App
------------------------------------

> .. include:: /includes/xcode-set-up-background-task-in-project.rst

Reviewer: why is this an include file if only used once?

Author: When I started working on this page, I was intending to also update the existing [Sync Data in the Background page](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/swift/sync/background-sync/). I was using this include in both places.

After getting farther into it and seeing it staged, I realized the existing Sync Data page was pretty unbalanced when I included this procedure. It showed the procedure, but I don't have a handy UIKit app to show code examples of how to schedule and run a background task using UIKit. So I shifted this to just use it on the SwiftUI page for now, but kept it as an include so I can easily add it here if/when we add a UIKit app and want to beef up this page.

Author: This does make me realize I should add a link to the SwiftUI page from the main Swift SDK Sync Data in the Background page, so adding that now.

     @Environment(\.scenePhase) private var phase
    
     var body: some Scene {
       WindowGroup {
       ContentView(app: realmApp)
     }
     .onChange(of: phase) { newPhase in
       switch newPhase {
       case .background: scheduleAppRefresh()
       default: break
       }
     }
   }

We've added an environment variable to store a change to the ``scenePhase``:
``@Environment(\.scenePhase) private var phase``.

Then, we add the ``.onChange(of: phase)`` block that calls the 
``scheduleAppRefresh()`` function when the app goes into the background.

Let's add the ``scheduleAppRefresh()`` function:

.. code-block:: swift
   
   func scheduleAppRefresh() {
     let backgroundTask = BGAppRefreshTaskRequest(identifier: "refreshTodoRealm")
     backgroundTask.earliestBeginDate = .now.addingTimeInterval(10)
     try? BGTaskScheduler.shared.submit(backgroundTask)
   }

This schedules the work to execute the background task whose identifier we
added to the Info.plist above when we enabled Background Modes. In our 
example, we use the identifier ``refreshTodoRealm`` to refer to this task.

Create the Background Task
--------------------------

> Now that we've scheduled a background task, we need to create the task that
> will run to update the synced realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've scheduled a background task, we need to create another background task task that
will update the synced realm.
```

clarification that other task is _background_ task as well.

Author: Hmm, I don't want to call the other task a background task because we're specifically talking about a `backgroundTask` API here, but I'll tweak the wording slightly.

> If you're following along with the Template App, you can add this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're following along with the Template App, you can add the new 
```

Author: I think "the new" is confusing wording in this context - I specifically want to instruct users to add this backgroundTask in the below example to their view.

     switch newPhase {
     case .background: scheduleAppRefresh()
     default: break
     }
   }
   .backgroundTask(.appRefresh("refreshTodoRealm")) {
     guard let user = realmApp.currentUser else {
       return
     }
     let config = user.flexibleSyncConfiguration(initialSubscriptions: { subs in
       if let foundSubscription = subs.first(named: "user_tasks") {
         foundSubscription.updateQuery(toType: Item.self, where: {
           $0.owner_id == user.id
         })
       } else {
         subs.append(QuerySubscription<Item>(name: "user_tasks") {
           $0.owner_id == user.id
         })
       }
     }, rerunOnOpen: true)
     await refreshSyncedRealm(config: config)
   }

This background task first checks that we have a logged-in user. If we do, 
it sets a :swift-sdk:`.flexibleSyncConfiguration 
<Extensions/User.html#/s:So7RLMUserC10RealmSwiftE25flexibleSyncConfiguration15clientResetMode20initialSubscriptions11rerunOnOpenAC0B0V0F0VAC06ClienthI0O_yAC0E15SubscriptionSetVcSbtF>` 
with a :ref:`subscription <swift-manage-flexible-sync-subscriptions>` the
app can use to sync the realm. This is the same configuration we use in the 

> Template App's ``ContentView``, but we need access to it here farther up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Template App's ``ContentView``. However, here you need access to it farther up
```

this would be good longer sentence to split for readability.

the hierarchy so we can sync in the background task.

Finally, this task awaits the result of a function that actually syncs the realm.
Let's add that function:

.. code-block:: swift

   func refreshSyncedRealm(config: Realm.Configuration) async {
     do {
       try await Realm(configuration: config, downloadBeforeOpen: .always)
     } catch {
       print("Error opening the Synced realm: \(error.localizedDescription)")
     }
   }

By opening this synced realm and using the ``downloadBeforeOpen`` parameter

> to specify that we want to download updates, we load the fresh data into

Reviewer: > to specify that **we** want to download updates, **we** load the fresh data into

can you update all 1st-person plural on this page to 2nd person singular/imperative per style guide? https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/writing/write-to-the-user/

the realm in the background. Then, when your app opens again, it already 
has the updated data on the device.

Do not try to write to the realm directly in this background task. You may

> encounter threading-related issues due to Realm's thread-confined architecture.

Reviewer: this seems pretty important. think it should be put in an `.. important::` admonition?

Test Your Background Task
-------------------------

When you schedule a background task, you are setting the earliest time that
the system could execute the task. However, the operating system factors in
many other considerations that may delay the execution of the background task
long after your scheduled ``earliestBeginDate``. Instead of waiting for a 
device to run the background task to verify it does what you intend, you can

> set a breakpoint and use LLDB to invoke the task.

Reviewer: should "LLDB" have a link to its docs?

Author: I don't think it's necessary to link out to LLDB from here because you don't have to read the docs for it to follow these instructions. And presumably, folks who develop with Xcode are familiar with LLDB already.

Configure a Device to Run Your App

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: i think it'd make sense if the subheadings in this section were a procedure/step directive since this is a ordered list of things to do

> To test this, you'll need a physical device running at minimum iOS 16.

Reviewer: > To test this

what does "this" refer to? i think it'd be good to be more explicit here b/c it's the beginning of a new section.

Your device must be configured to run in :apple:`Developer Mode 
<documentation/xcode/enabling-developer-mode-on-a-device>`. If you get an
``Untrusted Developer`` notification, go to :guilabel:`Settings`, 
:guilabel:`General`, and :guilabel:`VPN & Device Management`. Here, you 
can verify that you want to run the app you're developing.

Once you can successfully run your app on your device, you can test the
background task.

Set a Breakpoint
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Start by setting a breakpoint in your ``scheduleAppRefresh()`` function.
Set the breakpoint *after* the line where you submit the task to 
``BGTaskScheduler``. For this example, you might add a ``print`` line and 
set the breakpoint at the print line:

.. code-block:: swift
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   func scheduleAppRefresh() {
     let backgroundTask = BGAppRefreshTaskRequest(identifier: "refreshTodoRealm")
     backgroundTask.earliestBeginDate = .now.addingTimeInterval(10)
     try? BGTaskScheduler.shared.submit(backgroundTask)
     print("Successfully scheduled a background task") // Set a breakpoint here

>    }

Reviewer: showing my ignorance of swift, but how would i set a breakpoint at this line? 

i assume it's fairly obvious to a swift developer, but is it worth mentioning in some way what the mechanism for setting the breakpoint is?

Author: If you're using Xcode, which this page assumes, you click the line number to set a breakpoint. I think that should be pretty familiar to any developer who uses Xcode for debugging.

Run the App
~~~~~~~~~~~

> Now, run the app on the connected device. Create or sign into an account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, run the app on the connected device. Create or sign into an account in the app. 
```

If you're using the SwiftUI Template App, create some Items. You should see 
the Items sync to the ``Item`` collection linked to your Atlas App Services app.

Then, while leaving the app running in Xcode, send the app to the background
on your device. You should see the console print "Successfully scheduled a 
background task" and then get an LLDB prompt.

Add or Change Data in Atlas
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While the app is in the background but still running in Xcode, Insert a new
document in the relevant Atlas collection that should sync to the device. 
Alternately, change a value of an existing document that you created from
the device. After successfully running the background task, you should

> see this data synced to the device from the background process.

Reviewer: while it'd probably be too much to give a full detailed example of what to do here,
i think it's also worth providing some more guidance here. this could be confusing if you're not familiar w Atlas and/or how Device Sync stores data in it. 

as a minimum, could be good to:

- note where in Atlas Device Sync stores the data in the template app
- add a link to relevant part of atlas docs for inserting data

Author: Oof. That would be a lot to cover to do it properly. Taking your suggestion and adding a small paragraph and a link to relevant Atlas doc.

Invoke the Background Task in LLDB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use this command to manually execute the background task in LLDB:

.. code-block:: shell

   e -l objc -- (void)[[BGTaskScheduler sharedScheduler] _simulateLaunchForTaskWithIdentifier:@"refreshTodoRealm"]

If you have used a different identifier for your background task, replace 
``refreshTodoRealm`` with your task's identifier. This causes the task to 
immediately begin executing.

If successful, you should see something like:

.. code-block:: shell

   2022-11-11 15:09:10.403242-0500 App[1268:196548] Simulating launch for task with identifier refreshTodoRealm
   2022-11-11 15:09:16.530201-0500 App[1268:196811] Starting simulated task

After you have kicked off the task, use the :guilabel:`Continue program execution`

> button to resume running the app.

Reviewer: where is button? in Xcode? should this be specified?
